Greetings. We are so happy that you could join us for the December JW Broadcasting Program.
We are confident that the next hour will be spiritually refreshing for all of us.
Brother Mark Numera is joining us today. Mark, what do we have coming up on the program?
We're certainly looking forward to what you have to say, Brother Splain.
In addition to that, you will meet a brother who went from being a criminal
to being a special agent for the government. He is now a long-time witness of Jehovah.
What changed his life? Stay tuned to this channel.
If a person is of little means, does this necessarily rob him of the joy of giving?
We will have a video you will want to see and apply to your circumstances.
How many of you have been to Germany? Join us on a trip there to visit one of the largest branches of Jehovah's Witnesses.
If you have seen our broadcast of the annual meeting that was held last October,
you're aware of the fact that our songbook is being revised.
Well, perhaps some of you missed that broadcast.
So you may be wondering, why is it necessary to make changes to the songbook?
Well, as we explained at the annual meeting, some of the expressions used in our current songbook
were drawn from the earlier edition of the New World Translation.
That translation has been revised, as you know.
Instead of the desirable things of the nations, we now say the precious things of the nations.
Instead of loving kindness, we use loyal love.
Long suffering is rendered patience and so forth.
Since some of the terminology used in the songbook had to be adjusted,
the governing body decided to add a few songs as well, and we are very happy for that.
Now, those in attendance at the annual meeting this year were invited to sing three new songs.
And one of them was composed specially to mark the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the kingdom.
If you weren't present at the annual meeting this year, don't worry.
You'll get your chance to learn the new songs, and soon.
And you won't have to wait until the new songbook is released either.
From time to time, new songs will be released on our website for you to download.
Not only that, but at times we will even conclude the service meeting by singing one of the new songs.
Case in point.
During the week of January 5th, an entire service meeting has been set aside to help us appreciate our kingdom songs.
One of the new songs will be sung on that occasion.
It's entitled The Kingdom is in place. Let it come.
You guessed it, that's the song that was composed to mark the kingdom's 100th anniversary.
Would you like to hear it? Please listen and watch.
You've given the throne to your son. He rules by your decree.
One to destroy, see and see.
What a majestic song of praise to Jehovah. Isn't that beautiful?
But how can we prepare to sing that song as well as the others that will follow?
Thank you now to our studios in Patterson, New York, where our music choral arrangements are produced.
We'd like to introduce you to brothers Ted Adams and Danny Baker, who have worked with our orchestra for years.
And we also have with us Chris and Susan Maver, who both have a background in music.
Ted, we're counting on you and your guests to help us prepare to sing the new songs.
Thank you for the spleen. Singing is an important prominent feature of our worship.
So we want to be able to face the challenges of singing in a congregation setting.
There's a special challenge when we're learning a new song. What is that?
I think learning a new song is like breaking in a new pair of shoes.
At first, the new songs aren't as comfortable as the ones that were used to singing.
But after singing them for a while, exerting a little effort, well, these could become our most favorite songs to sing.
Now, some of us have a hard time learning new songs.
But we have to remember that these new songs were composed for a good reason.
It's actually a scriptural reason, isn't it?
That's right. You know, throughout the scriptures, we often see an expression like this, sing to Jehovah a new song.
And the Bible tells us why new songs were composed and sung and why we should learn new songs today and sing them.
The 98th song in verse 1 gives us a good reason.
It says, sing to Jehovah a new song for he has done wonderful things.
Now, we think about what Jehovah is doing today with his organization.
Truly wonderful things he's accomplishing to glorify his name and to help his servants here on earth.
And each of us in our personal lives have experienced Jehovah's wonderful things in our lives personally.
Now, the new songs also reflect a clear understanding of the Bible, as well as expressing the love that we have for Jehovah and our appreciation for his tender care.
So when we get these new songs, we can think about what Jehovah has done for us personally, that's true.
But also, especially what he's doing with the organization now.
This should put us on the right frame of mind and heart to really learn the songs.
But what if we feel that we're just not as good as the singers on the recordings?
Well, actually, the singers on the recordings, some might be interested to know, very few of those used for vocal renditions have had any professional training or professional experience.
So all of them have had to learn to sing better mainly through practice.
And that's comforting for the rest of us.
We feel like we may not sing so well, but we all can improve.
We all can learn to sing better.
And of course, the more you sing, the easier it will become.
Some of us hesitate to sing because we feel the notes are a bit too high for us.
Would you give us some ideas how we can change the range of our voice and be able to sing these higher notes?
Well, you know, for young people, the range is not a problem.
But as we age, unfortunately, like the rest of our bodies, our voices can lose range, like we lose range of motion.
So we can regain some of our range by doing a type of stretching with our voice just as an athlete would stretch before a game or before going for a run.
We can do that very simply by using like a humming sound, maybe in the shower, the kitchen, the car, somewhere you feel comfortable.
And just using a humming sound to gently go through your full range of your voice and then gently pushing the limits of it.
That way we can regain and maintain the range of our voice.
So that helps us with the range, but now what about those high notes?
Well, those high notes can be a bit of a challenge.
But you know, there are a couple of things we can do that will really make them easier to produce.
One is we need to make sure we take a really good breath before we sing the phrase with the high note in it.
Because more breath energy makes it much easier to produce a higher note.
Also, physiologically, we need more space in the mouth and throat area to make it easier to produce a high note.
So we would even see that on the outside when the mouth gets larger going from a lower note to a higher note.
Then it won't feel so tight and it's easier to produce a higher note.
Good. So those two things are take a deeper, bigger breath for the high notes and then more space created by the mouth.
When how does the composing team help us with some of these high note issues?
Well, the composers do take the musical range of the human voice into account, including the range of unskilled singers.
And in a musical composition, in dealing with high notes in particular, there's basically two ways to get up there as a composer.
One is to walk your way up there, going up the scale. That's the easier method.
And locally, that's easier to get up there.
At times in a composition, there are jumps from low notes to high notes.
But there are jumps which are more logical musically, which also makes them more instinctively comfortable for us to sing, even if we're not trained singers.
So the compositions have taken these factors into account.
And I think two keys here, number one, what Susan has been talking about is to try and develop our voices a little more.
Couple that with learning the song.
And if you have those two things in place, high notes are not the issue that maybe you thought they would be.
You know, it sounds like the fundamentals for good singing are basically the same for good public speaking.
Like the instructions we get in the Ministry School textbook.
Exactly. You know, maintaining good posture, standing up nice and straight, and being sure to take good deep breaths before speaking.
It's very true that poor posture and shallow breathing are definitely the enemies of good singing.
It's just the way that Jehovah created us physiologically.
We have these tiny little vocal cords.
But when we take a good breath and send the air through them, then it resonates through our bones and tissues.
And we can produce sound easily.
Good. Thanks Susan. Good ideas on technique.
Now here's the problem that comes up during our meetings.
Sometimes the piano can't be heard.
The volume of the piano is not high enough.
And when you fill the auditorium with voices, it just drowns the piano out.
Now how can we handle that?
Well, the key to solving that problem is for the brother at the sound console to be listening.
Listening not just to the piano volume, but listening also to what you refer to, how the singing is going.
For example, if the singers can't stay together, or if they can't stay with the piano recording, they're either ahead of it or behind it, then that's the key for the sound operator to turn the piano up.
So the operator then has to be free to focus on the sound.
Just as when you're driving a car, you have to keep your hand on the wheel, make adjustments to stay on the road.
Yes, I think free for that task is the key word there.
The reality is that at the beginning of many of our meeting programs, the brother or brothers in our sound department are trying to multitask with various little things that happen right at the beginning of the program.
And this, this issue of the piano volume sometimes just gets overlooked. So at least one person back there has to be dedicated exclusively at that moment to listening to and adjusting the piano volume.
And this would be especially true whenever a new song is scheduled for a program.
It's definitely we need to be listening to the cues or the music when it's being played.
But you know, this doesn't relieve us of the personal responsibility that each of us have to become familiar with the music even ahead of time before going to the meeting.
And that way we can be prepared to sing the songs when we arrive.
The same way we prepare for other parts in the meeting. That's right.
Well, doesn't that just put us right in mind of family worship then because family worship is where so much meeting preparation is done typically.
So include the music during family worship, get the songbook out, turn on the piano recording, sing along.
Even better if we can play the piano or if you play guitar, do it live and sing to it live.
The simplified chords up there in JW.org that we can download.
But even for social occasions, social gatherings, we can sing the songs.
The idea is prepare for this part of our worship with the congregation or even for our assemblies and conventions.
Yeah, you know, the faithful slave has really given us the tools to be well prepared not on congregation meetings, but also at these events, the assemblies and conventions.
Once ahead of time, the programs are posted on the website.
And in those programs are the songs that will be sung at these events.
And so we can be well prepared by downloading, as you mentioned, the piano music or the sheet music from JW.org and include that in our preparation for our these assemblies.
And you mentioned downloading a number of things, but is that hard to do?
Well, they've tried to make it as simple as possible.
On the homepage is the publications tab. You click on that. It brings up a tab on the left side that says music.
You click on that and all the music products are right there.
The MP3s for the vocal renditions, the piano accompaniment, orchestral arrangements.
But there's also a tab for the songbook, sing to Jehovah.
If you click on that, there's a PDF tab and that gives you all the sheet music that you need, including the simplified guitar chords.
Well, you know, Ted, as simple as that sounds, we do understand that many still find navigating websites to be a challenging thing.
And at the same time, we know that some of our brothers and sisters still don't own the equipment, the computer equipment, to do their own downloads.
This is where the congregation, and in particular the elders and ministerial servants, can take the lead in helping everyone to have these materials.
Because as we help each other that way, especially the brothers taking the lead, then this really engenders a spirit of enthusiasm, interest in this feature of our worship.
It seems like we have all the tools that we need then to learn the new songs and be well prepared to sing them at our congregation meetings with the help of the elders, even as brought out here.
And it really is important to do that because some of the songs besides not knowing the melodies or the words, it also could be written in a particular style that maybe we're not used to singing in.
And so when we are listened to the music ahead of time, then we can come better familiar, not just with the tune and the words, but also the style in which they are written.
Well, Chris, because you mentioned musical style, this brings up another personal matter, I think, for many of us.
And that's how we view music itself.
The point here is that it's all too common in this world to just be the product of the entertainment industry with respect to our musical tastes.
They're in the business of selling what you might call ear candy.
What that means is that anything that just quickly catches the ear and catches on becomes popular.
Well, that's a very marketable product and they make a lot of money selling it.
Well, it's kind of like candy that we like to eat when we're children.
And we still like it when we grow up too, but the point is when we're children, that's kind of all we want.
Later on, we have to learn to appreciate and enjoy the foods that are really better for us and the ones that we really need.
Well, the music that we use in our worship is kind of like that healthy food.
We might not yet have the taste for it, but we need to develop it because it's there to nourish us spiritually.
The governing body wants us all to sing praises to Jehovah.
Just like back in King Jehoshite's time when the army was going out into battle, they were singing.
And the scripture says they were joyfully singing praises to Jehovah.
So we want to use all the tools that we have to learn the new songs and just start singing.
You know, Ted, I couldn't help but thank the scriptural reference.
It really indicates that those men were not at all timid about singing praises to Jehovah God.
And really, that sets a pattern for us today.
We should not feel shy or timid about singing at the Kingdom Hall or at any of our meetings praises to Jehovah God.
And certainly we have the tools now to learn these new songs and to be just like those ancient Israelites singing praises to Jehovah with full heart and joy.
What you just said, Chris, really helps to make the point that we should view our singing and worship as we view our prayers at that matter of being timid.
Well, prayer is not always easy, even even private prayer is not always easy.
Sometimes we're praying about something painful or difficult or something that's kind of confusing at the time.
So we're struggling for the clear thought.
We're struggling even for the words to use in the prayer, even though it's a private prayer.
But we still manage to give that prayer to Jehovah because we love him and because we want to continue worshiping him.
That's why even people with limited vocabularies can still pray very successfully, very effectively to Jehovah.
And maybe that's the way some of us are as singers. We're limited.
But that's okay.
We still do it and we're not timid about it.
We do it for the same important reasons that we love Jehovah and that we want to worship him this way.
When we get the new songs, we want to be excited about learning them.
These new songs express our devotion, our feeling for Jehovah.
They also keep us in harmony with the greater understanding of scriptures and, of course, how Jehovah deals with us personally.
Now we'll go back to our studio in Brooklyn.
Thank you so much, panel. Your insights have been most helpful.
We recommend that you viewers replay that discussion again before the service meeting for the week of January 5th.
Well, music certainly can bring us joy. But Mark, what else contributes to our happiness?
The Bible indicates that giving makes us happy.
But some of our brothers have very little materially.
How can we give to others if we are struggling economically?
But likely we can all learn a lesson from this next video. Please watch.
I love my family very much.
Even though we don't have a lot, we're glad we have each other.
Mom works really hard to provide for us. It's just the four of us.
We've all been feeling just a little sad lately.
I can tell she's really tired and worries a lot.
I try to help out. Sometimes I help to get everyone ready for the meeting.
We seem to manage our right.
Things are really hard.
The elders could tell we were struggling.
They came to visit us. They were so loving.
Billy listened to Mom and read her some scriptures.
They helped her to see that Jehovah still cared about all of us.
And that we still have the love of the congregation to strengthen us.
I could tell Mom felt a lot better afterwards.
At our next family worship, Mom read to us 2 Corinthians 814.
That story is about the Macedonians. Mom had us close our eyes so we can imagine the scene.
Even though the Macedonians were very poor, they found happiness by giving what they could to others.
They even begged the apostles for the opportunity to give.
Then we read Acts 2035 where it says,
There is more happiness and giving than there is and receiving, like Sister said.
But we don't have anything to give.
Mom said, but we do. We have ourselves.
It got us all thinking. Mom had a great idea.
We spent the rest of our family worship making special gifts for the friends and our congregation.
It was pretty amazing.
Even though we don't have a lot materially, there is still so much we can give.
Like putting a little in the contribution box each week and helping to clean.
And of course sharing in the ministry is the very best way we can give to others.
Now we are even closer as a family. And we have learned that there truly is more happiness and giving.
Even small gifts are appreciated by the recipient.
You recall that Jesus commended the needy widow who dropped in only two small coins of very little value.
He thus emphasized the point that all of us can contribute to something to Jehovah's work.
Even if we are of little means.
In fact, that video reminded me of the time when my wife and I spent time in East Africa as missionaries.
We saw how some of our brothers in the rural areas, though limited financially, did not want to miss out on the privilege of giving.
They yearned to give.
Jesus example of the widow demonstrated that joyful giving is not limited to those who may have more materially.
In fact, in one area I recall each member of a congregation willingly contributed one metal roof sheet or bag of maize toward the construction of a modest locally built kingdom hall.
And they were so happy. They realized that there was more happiness in giving than in receiving.
As pointed out in the video, another way of giving is by means of our work at the kingdom hall or other activities in Jehovah's service.
An excellent example of one who gave of his time and energy is brother Max Larson.
He served at World Headquarters for over 72 years until his death in 2011.
He saw firsthand many exciting developments in our modern day history.
In this archive interview, please observe how brother Larson trusted in Jehovah's direction.
The photograph was a part of our work back at that time.
Had records of the time made them material dissolved in the water.
And out in Washington state, you get a lot of rain.
And one drop on that record and the needle headed room to record.
So we had to try to keep out of the rain.
And then we started playing a record and started out.
It's often said that religion is a snare and a racquet.
That kind of people attention.
It served very well for the final probation for carrying on the ministry working using every day.
Especially when in the special pioneer work.
That's 200 hours a month.
It was pretty busy.
I did that four months before I came to Bethel.
And all that time, I used to photograph.
Back in the Depression day, they did a lot of trading.
So this day, I traded for books for a big bag of pairs.
I gave them about 9.30, I stayed up in the attic, getting a ball in there for the...
Al Hoffman was one of the noiner and he was the district overseer in that trailer.
So I went over to him and asked him, like, to have some pairs.
And he said, oh, my teacher, love, to have some pairs.
He said, come on in.
So he said, sit down.
He said, you ever think about the Bible house?
I said, what's that?
That's what they call Bethel.
At the time, he started explaining Bethel.
We sat there seven and a half hours ago.
It was so wonderful hearing about Bethel.
I was so excited about it.
So instead of going up and going to Bethel, I went up in my room,
got my paper and pencil.
I wrote a letter to the Society.
He asked for a Bethel application.
And then it would come back to Bethel.
So I kept it in mind every day and prayers at Jehovah.
And four months, I got my call.
Very short letter.
There are only a few lines.
We have your application.
You can come right away.
We can use you.
That's fun.
So then those days, you didn't get on a plane and ride.
You get on a bus.
There were six days, six nights on a bus.
In the wintertime, the Blizzard Month had a Blizzard North to go.
And I finally got to New York.
Well, first assignment, Brother North took me down to the shipping department.
So he had me tying cartons for a week.
And then Brother North came down and took me up to the press room.
And he said, we're getting a new press in three months.
Elrott is going to run that.
Now, if you can learn to run this, you can operate it.
So in three months, while it's operating,
operate it for a year and a half.
And then one day, Brother North came down again after a year and a half.
And how did you like to work in the office?
Well, Brother North, that's the last job I would think.
So then he started introducing me to the type of work I had to do.
And then he's made a statement I never forgot and still using.
If you want to spoil a manager and give him desk work,
a manager belongs with the people who aren't working,
then you go through this plant twice a day.
So learn to do that.
So then I did that for his assistant being trained for a year and a half.
And then one night, everybody gone home.
It's an open office.
His desk was about 15 feet from mine.
And he said, I just got a call.
Papi just went home.
That was a call from San Ada Papi,
who was rather for the die.
He didn't send him more for a minute to then produce the well.
He says, in fact, I'll have to stay over 124 and take care of the world.
You take the factory.
I didn't sleep too much that night.
So I only had three years of Bethel experience.
So then from then on, I had the factory job for 59 years.
When I got this assignment, not to be a factor of a seer,
but three years experience, I need a lot of help.
They were all very helpful, too.
There was nine departments of the factory,
and every department had an overseer, and every moment was years anointed.
I go them and talk over matters, discuss things.
The difference had different abilities and different fields.
If it was something on the Bible, I'd go to Brother Carl Klein.
He was sharp as biblical.
And now that's a different matter.
And that's what pulled me through.
I get to appreciate the depth of the anointed part of that.
None of them resented the fact that I got the job of them in a Bethel longer years.
And they're very devoted.
We had what we call a janitors back there.
They call them cleaners.
These two handled the factory for about 50 years,
doing all the janitors their work to the anointed.
And they just treasure that privilege they had.
They just showed their spirit they had to anointed people.
All of us said there's no place on earth.
That equals being at Bethel.
And of course, I had that feeling.
Everyone savagely went out to the States to law.
I never thought of anything else.
I've had a good companion, a very intelligent,
a very spiritual-minded wife.
I've had to vote it.
And it's been a great encouragement to the two to help me state Bethel.
Also, those years, the operating of the factory constantly
and I appreciate it, your host of reaction.
I knew it's going to come out the way intended to.
To see that organization be built up.
We're fulfilling what we've prayed for.
For God's came to the comforter,
we'll be done on earth that doesn't happen.
We live without sickness, without illness,
perfection of health, peaceful conditions on earth,
a paradise condition.
There's what our loving father has for us.
And that's the hope we have.
And that's what we strive for,
to be faithful to the hope of God,
that other people learn about this.
We can take a great crowd with us through this tribulation.
Enjoy eternal life on a paradise earth,
on a loving rule of a heavenly government kingdom.
If you have visited World Headquarters in New York,
you might have recognized some of the places
where Brother Larsen worked.
However, ours is a global organization
and much work takes place
and our many branches around the world.
Join us as we visit the Central York Branch,
which is located in Salter's Germany.
This is one of the larger branches used
by Jehovah's Witnesses.
The tour video demonstrates what is involved
in providing spiritual food to people.
Peace, the purity, your balance,
sending support, your overpromised,
grasping your right hand, saying to you,
do not be afraid.
I will help you.
He stretches out his hand to us every day
through magazines, books, films, videos.
They help us to live by his word.
All this is available to us
thanks to the cooperation of 90 branch offices
throughout the world.
One of them is in Salters.
Over 30 persons translate the articles and videos
from English into German.
They are recorded and published on our website
or are prepared for print.
Large editions are produced at high speed.
Advanced technology is used.
The entire process focuses on quality.
Literature for 1.3 million brothers
is sent from here in 300 languages.
Literature is packed for over 16,500 congregations.
It is sent to all four corners of the earth.
Even to the most eastern parts of Asia,
a branch committee coordinate all Bethel operations.
These experienced men also look
after the preaching work throughout the branch territory.
Conventions are organized.
The activity of circuit overseers is coordinated.
Schools are also planned.
The idea behind these schools
is for the graduates to lend a helping hand
to the congregations.
We loved the school.
It was a special training from Jehovah.
Concepts are developed and executed
for the construction, extension
and renovation of Bethel homes and assembly halls.
When we found the lightning,
when we were assigned to do an assembly hall,
we first looked for properties.
It has to be large enough and well-located
for the brothers to easily reach.
We also look for sufficient parking space
and good public transport.
We usually have several properties to choose from.
Then we work out different options
and drawings for each site.
After that, we send these options
to the governing body for review and approval.
For questions on non-blood medical management,
600 brothers in 80 hospital liaison committees are available.
The commitment of the brothers
and the hospital liaison committees
has always been amazing to me.
Everything they do for their brothers
is out of love and without payment.
When we think of such a service,
we clearly see Jehovah's Hand.
At Bethel, all live together
like a big family.
Of course, the spiritual program is very important.
We enjoy the well-prepared comments that morning worship.
And then, of course,
we look forward to watch our study on Monday evening
when the Bethel family comes together
to study gods who are out to study.
All the work accomplished here is not just any kind of work,
false loving devotion.
It is sacred service,
no matter where one comes from,
no matter what the assignment,
the common goal is to promote the worldwide work
to honor Jehovah.
Jehovah helps us to remain strong in the faith,
to reach out for his hand,
toward a bright future.
If you enjoyed that glimpse of the work in a foreign country,
you'll be happy to know that on the
Our Activities channel on JW Broadcasting,
you will find tour videos from additional branches.
Seeing how our brothers and sisters worldwide work together
in unity will strengthen your faith.
In this self-centered world,
Satan takes every opportunity to attack Jehovah's people.
Whether we have served faithfully for many years
or have only recently embraced the truth,
it is vital that we stay close to Jehovah
and his organization.
In the following morning worship program,
Brother Stephen Let, a member of the governing body
reminds us why we need to protect ourselves
from overconfidence.
If you look at today's text,
let him that thinks he is standing beware
that he doesn't not fall.
What is that especially warning against?
Is it not overconfidence?
What could cause a pilot to neglect
to carefully follow his safety checklist before takeoff?
Again, overconfidence.
What could cause a Christian to fail to regularly check
the depth of his spirituality?
Again, overconfidence.
So, this being said,
let's discuss the theme,
never become overconfident.
Now, even though there's no age restriction,
especially young ones need to beware
of the snare of overconfidence.
Now, you can see this tendency of younger ones
to be overconfident in how some of them
will recklessly maneuver a motorcycle
at very high speed through heavy traffic,
feeling they're invincible.
You can almost tell how old they are
about how fast they go through the traffic there.
Open up, please, to Proverbs chapter 14.
And even though this scripture doesn't put
any age restriction,
the point being made
that nobody can overconfidently
think he's immune to overconfidence.
Now, you have to think about that statement.
Look at Proverbs 14,
but young ones especially have to beware,
but there's no age restriction here.
Verse 16,
the wise one is cautious
and turns away from evil.
But the stupid one is reckless
and overconfident.
So, obviously, we don't want to be
in the camp of the stupid one, do we?
That one is reckless and overconfident.
We want to be cautious
and turn away from evil.
Now, using this scripture as a foundation
for our discussion, what are some cautions?
Because you know what it says,
the wise one is cautious?
What are some cautions that can help us
from being, or keep us from being overconfident?
Well, let's quickly discuss three.
One, never overconfidently think
we can take unauthorized liberties.
Now, let's just talk about this for a moment.
Here's two contrasting examples.
Think of Aza.
Now, no one knows to touch the arc of the covenant,
but he reached out
and grabbed hold of it, didn't he?
Well, Jehovah struck him dead
for this unauthorized liberty that he took.
In contrast, think about David.
Now, David, even though he had a perfect opportunity
to kill Saul,
his men were encouraging him to do it,
he refused to touch the anointed of Jehovah.
He even felt bad that he had disrespectfully touched
the garments of the anointed of Jehovah.
So he knew he had not been authorized to kill Saul.
So he stayed in his place, he waited on Jehovah.
And what a fine example for us.
And I'm sure we can all think of,
in regard to this first caution,
we can think of application for here at Bethel
in our congregation, even in our family.
Let's get our second caution.
Never overconfidently presume on Jehovah's mercy.
Now, let's think about this.
An example of this could be ones that think
they'll leave the truth for a while.
They'll have some fun in this world.
They'll enjoy some selfish desires
and then they'll come back later to Jehovah.
And Jehovah will take them back to Jehovah will forgive them.
But now, isn't that very risky?
Isn't that a reckless course?
In fact, it makes me think of the story of the dog
we had on the farm when I was about 11 or 12 years old.
He was a good dog.
We loved him. His name was Wheeler.
But one night,
there was a pack of wild dogs that came through the valley
where we lived.
And Wheeler took off with these wild dogs.
Now, we couldn't understand it
because we took such good care of him.
I asked Dad, why?
Why would he do that?
Well, my father said,
maybe there's a female in the pack.
Maybe he just wants to have fun for a while,
but I'm pretty sure he'll come home.
Well, he did come home about a week later.
But he was all chewed up.
He had been in a horrible fight
with one or more of the other dogs apparently in the pack.
And he barely made it back to his doghouse.
It took him a couple of weeks.
He slowly recovered.
He never had this same strength that he had previously.
But now, here's a really sad part of the story.
About two years later,
another pack of wild dogs came through.
And again, he ran off with them.
Now, we couldn't believe it.
This time, he came back,
even he was gone longer.
And he couldn't even make it back this time to the doghouse.
We found him the next morning in the yard
and my brother and I gently carried him to his doghouse
and about a day later he died in that doghouse.
Now, we cried.
We couldn't believe it.
Now, he was just a dog.
But if you think about that story,
some of our young ones really remind you
of that dog, Wheeler.
They're so well cared for by those that love them,
especially Jehovah,
but they think they're missing out on fun.
And so they will run with the world for a while,
thinking probably in the back of their head,
they're going to come back to the truth later.
But how foolish, how recklessly
may none of us even slightly think this way
and may we help others,
and especially our young ones,
to never foolishly reason this way.
But one more caution, a third,
never overconfidently rely on ourselves.
Solomon, apparently, that was his downfall.
He knew he was not to increase the number of horses,
increase wives.
See, he was not ignorant.
He knew, but somehow he must have rationalized.
He was an exception.
See, he was strong enough.
He was wise enough.
He could handle it.
Well, that was the pride before the crash, wasn't it?
Or what about Peter?
Apparently his downfall.
In effect, he said,
all the others may have weaknesses in their faith,
but not me, Lord.
I'll never fail you.
But this overconfident, self-reliant,
I am more faithful than they are attitude,
was followed by a terrible crash.
And that makes us think of Paul's words
at 2 Corinthians 1210,
when I am weak,
then I am powerful.
See, when we're weak,
we know we have to depend on Jehovah.
That's really when we're the strongest.
But when we think we're strong, like Peter,
that's generally when we're relying on ourselves.
And that's when we're the weakest.
In contrast to Peter, Solomon, Jesus,
never overconfidently relied on himself.
And that's why he never crashed.
But look at Luke chapter 22.
Just one more thought here about right before his betrayal
and death.
See, notice how he was certainly not relying on himself,
even though you could say he had billions of years
of faithful service under his belt.
Verse 41,
He withdrew from them about a stone's throw away.
He bent his knees and began to pray, saying,
Father, if you want to,
remove this cup from me.
Nevertheless, let not my will,
but yours take place.
Then an angel from heaven appeared to him
and strengthened him.
But he was in such agony that he kept praying
more earnestly,
and his sweat became as drops of blood falling to the ground.
Now just recently, I noticed that,
and thought about this point,
that even after the angel strengthened him,
he didn't say, well, I've been strengthened.
Now I'm good to go.
No, he prayed even more intently.
Truly the opposite of overconfidence.
So there we have three cautions.
Never overconfidently think we can take unauthorized
liberties in Jehovah's organization.
Number two, never overconfidently presume
on Jehovah's mercy.
And number three, never overconfidently rely on ourselves.
Now if we observe these cautions,
we'll never join the camp of the stupid ones
who are reckless and overconfident.
What a privilege it was to hear Brother Lett,
a member of the governing body at Morning Worship.
Have you ever asked fellow believers
how they found the truth?
It is a common question that sometimes
uncovers unique experiences.
We asked Brother James Dyson that question.
As a young man, he was overconfident,
but he reached a turning point.
What was it?
And where has it led him?
Please listen to his intriguing story.
I came from a rather large family.
We went to church from our youth on.
I guess I really stopped going to church
when I was a teenager.
I graduated from high school in 1965.
Since the Vietnam War was raging,
I knew I would have to make a decision.
I didn't want to fight in Vietnam
because I didn't want to get killed first of all.
And I didn't really want to be put in a position
where I might have to kill someone else.
And so I decided that the best thing for me to do,
instead of trying to dodge the draft,
was to join a form of the military,
where I wouldn't have to fight.
I worked on airplanes.
Every night was an adventure.
You know, when you're off base,
you're either downtown with the black market,
the clubs, buying and selling drugs.
It was just a wild scene.
After my military service was over
and I was honestly discharged,
I went to one of the old clubs
that everybody used to go to.
And to my surprise,
one of the guys that I worked with
and the Air Force was there.
We got to talking.
And right there,
that very night, we devised this plan to go to Thailand.
And I got some drugs.
Two months later, that's what we did.
Just to get there,
we had to go through a channel
of waterways through the jungle.
When we got to this one little island
where this drug lord was,
we picked up the drugs.
And when we got to the airport,
this Thai colonel
and the police force,
he put a 38 right here
and he told me,
please do not try to resist me.
So from there, of course,
we went to our jail,
Clung Prim Prison,
right there in Thailand.
Life in Clung Prim was pretty grim.
And so you only got fear twice a day.
They wouldn't serve it to us.
They would put it out in the middle of the yard.
And you had to run for it.
Awful.
Two months.
I lost 130 pounds.
And so I had to fight.
It was crazy.
We had this British gentleman
come to visit us
while we were in prison.
And he told us that
he was from the American consulate
and that he wanted to help us.
And he said, let me tell you something.
You're in a lot of trouble.
So as it turned out,
this man was the chief narcotics agent
for the whole Southeast Asian area.
And he said, I want you to work for me
as a special agent.
And so I told him, okay, you know, I'll try it.
And then back to Okinawa.
And that's where I started to work as an agent.
He said, you're not going to get paid.
You know, you're going to have to deal drugs to survive.
And along the way,
I set up drug dealers
who was dealing pretty big.
After a year of that,
and they reviewed my case
and they gave me an opportunity
to either keep working
as one of their special agents
so I got out of the business.
So I chose to get out of the business.
I had decided that I had to change my life.
I was disgusted with the way I was living.
And so I was sitting in my apartment
late one afternoon
and as a little lady, you know,
knocked on the door,
a little Japanese lady.
I went to the door
and I discerned that she wasn't trying
to hustle me for anything.
And so I invited her in.
And she was talking about God and the Bible.
And she had this little blue book, you know,
a truth at least to eternal life.
I said, sit to myself, here we go.
That's when everything began to make sense.
What now seems to me to be basic Bible doctrines
were like bombshells to me.
I mean, I was phenomenal
the way that one visit
changed my life that day.
That very day, I knew that
that was the truth
and that I had to stick with it.
The very next week,
she came, took me to the Theocratic school
and service meeting.
And I've been going every sense.
I realized that I had to
change my lifestyle completely.
I made rapid changes,
internal changes.
My whole thinking process has changed.
I was baptized on August 30th, 1974.
They I'll never forget.
The best thing for me to do was to return home
and go to the local congregation there
where there would be, you know,
literally qualified men to help me
to continue to grow spiritually.
I really, really wanted to go to Bethel
and so I determined that that's
what I was going to do.
And so I made it a goal
and I stuck with it, you know,
for five years after I got home.
And finally, I got the privilege.
The privilege that was extended to me
of coming to serve at Bethel
has stretched out to be 35 years
and I can't believe it.
Since serving here at Bethel,
I've served in a number of assignments.
Currently, I serve as a desk receptionist,
caring for building maintenance duties,
the occupants of the building,
greeting guests,
and just generally trying to be
as helpful as possible.
I mean, I think about all the good things
that Jehovah has done for me
and for my wife, Bonnie.
It's been phenomenal.
I've learned that you can't really do anything
in your own strength.
Jehovah, he searches the heart.
He looks for people who are yearning
for something better, the direction,
but only he can give.
Because I shudder at the course I could have taken
on a number of occasions that would have led to,
you know, a different outcome.
And so I'm very happy to be in the truth.
It is absolutely on the best way of life.
I don't know much,
but I do know this.
That Jehovah is real.
He's very kind and merciful.
I do know that.
It was a delightful experience.
Many of our viewers can relate to that experience
and have come to appreciate a warm
and abiding relationship with Jehovah.
And even if we have been taught the truth from infancy,
we are encouraged to observe how the truth
can drastically change a person for the better.
This moves us to share the good news
of the kingdom with people regardless
of their background or status.
I couldn't agree more.
Mark, thank you so much.
It was a real pleasure to have you as co-host.
Thank you.
I'd like to come back to something
that our panel touched on earlier.
You know, some members of our congregations
and not only the older brothers and sisters
have no access to a computer.
Now, they want to prepare for
and participate in the meetings the same as everyone else.
So during this month,
please arrange for them to hear the new song
and to get a copy of the lyrics, too.
Now, others may own a computer,
but don't take for granted that they know
how to download a song in the lyrics.
Many use a computer simply as a word processor.
Now, here's a job for your younger brothers and sisters.
Please make sure that they have what they need
so that they can participate in the service meeting as well.
Now, to the elders.
If you're assigned to care for that 30-minute part
during the week of January 5th,
please, please prepare well.
The entire governing body feels strongly
that our kingdom songs are an important feature
of our worship.
Remember, dear friends,
the Bible's largest single book,
The Book of Songs,
is really a song book.
It is a collection of 150 sacred songs.
We thank all of you for joining us this month
for this most encouraging program.
Until next time,
this is J.W. Broadcasting
from Brooklyn, New York.